Day-4 Assignment Questions:
1. We want to store the information about different vehicles. Create a class named Vehicle with two data member named mileage and price. Create its two subclasses
---Car with data members to store ownership cost, warranty (by years), seating capacity and fuel type (diesel or petrol).
---Bike with data members to store the number of cylinders, number of gears, cooling type(air, liquid or oil), wheel type(alloys or spokes) and fuel tank size(in inches)
Make another two subclasses Audi and Ford of Car, each having a data member to store the model type.
Next, make two subclasses Bajaj and TVS, each having a data member to store the make-type.
Now, store and print the information of an Audi and a Ford car (i.e. model type, ownership cost, warranty, seating capacity, fuel type, mileage and price.) Do the same for a Bajaj and a TVS bike.
‌
2. Construct a base class called twoD contains x and y and methods to read and write the x and y. Create another class called threeD which is derived from twoD and also contains z and write methods to read and write z. Also write a method to find the distance of two threeD Points.
sqrt((x2-x1)^2+(y2-y1)^2+(z2-z1)^2)
In main:
Create one ThreeD object using the default constructor.
Use the setters to set x, y, and z.
Create the second ThreeD object using the constructor with three arguments.
in the TwoD class:
Add a cout statement to the TwoD default constructor with a message "TwoD default constructor"
Add a cout statement to other TwoD constructor with a message "TwoD constructor with two arguments"
‌
3. A class Point is declared as follows:
class Point{
public:
Point(){int=0;int=0;} //default constructor
void setPoint(int,int); //set coordinates
int getX() const {return x;} //get x coordinates
int getY() const {return y;} //get y coordinates
void printPoint(); // print (x,y) coordinates
private int x;
private int y;
};
Write the implementation of the class Point in the same file.
Then, declare a class called Circle that is derived from the class Point. The class Circle has public member functions Circle (constructor), setRadius(), getRadius() and area() and one private data member radius. The class Circle indirectly uses private member x and y of class Point to store the coordinate of the center of the circle. The class Circle also checks to make sure the radius value is a positive number, otherwise it is set to default value 1.
Note: The private members of class Point can only be indirectly accessed by class Circle using public methods of class point.
Implement the class Circle and write a driver program to test the class Circle. An example of the output of the driver program is.
Enter x: 2
Enter y: 2
Enter radius: 1
Circle center is (2,2)
Radius is 1
Area is 3.14
4. Write a program to illustrate that Classes cannot be used for multiple Inheritance.
5. Create a class named Shape with a method that prints "This is a shape". Create another class named Polygon inheriting the Shape class with the same method that prints "Polygon is a shape". Create two other classes named Rectangle and Triangle having the same method which prints "Rectangle is a polygon" and "Triangle is a polygon" respectively. Again, make another class named Square having the same method which prints "Square is a rectangle".
Now, try calling the method by the object of each of these classes.
6. Design a simple inventory system in Java using object-oriented principles that demonstrates the use of static variables and object containment.
Create two classes:
---Store
---Product
Requirements:
The Store class should have:
a. storeName and storeLocation as static variables since they are common to all products in the store.
b. A static method setStoreDetails(String name, String location) to initialize the static variables.
c. A static method displayStoreDetails() to print store details.
d. A list to maintain multiple Product objects (i.e., the store contains many products).
e. A method addProduct(Product product) to add products to the store.
f. A method displayAllProducts() to display details of all products.
The Product class should have:
a. Product ID, name, price, and quantity as instance variables.
b. A constructor to initialize these fields.
c. A method displayProduct() to show product details.
Task: Implement the above classes and demonstrate their use in the main() method by:
a. Setting store details once.
b. Creating multiple product objects.
c. Adding them to the store.
d. Displaying store and product information.
Also Check how many .class files are generated.
